[Music]
well ahoy there matey what comes to your
mind when you hear the word see probably
sandy beaches palm trees the tide
rolling in and splashing the shore how'd
you like to sail with me to an invisible
sea with no Shores great climb on board
oh yeah I forgot to mention this seas
got a mysterious reputation for
swallowing ships yeah it's okay
I'm sure we'll be fine destination the
Sargasso Sea so if this invisible sea
has no Shores then what makes up its
borders
well it's located right in the middle of
the North Atlantic Ocean and its borders
are all natural
therefore major ocean currents it
basically sits in the Whirlpool between
them there's the Gulf Stream current to
its west which moves up to its northern
border the North Atlantic Current then
the water swirls downward in the canary
current to the east and finally the
southern border is the North Atlantic
equatorial current on its western
fringes you'll find the island of
Bermuda does that ring any bells yes
that very Bermuda and it's infamous
triangle that's been tied to tons of
mysterious maritime disappearances but
I'll get into that here in a bit because
its borders our ocean currents and
currents are constantly moving it's
impossible to say exactly how large the
Sargasso Sea is on average it's about
1430 miles long from east to west and
680 miles from north to south the water
in it is bright blue go ahead lean over
the side take a look the water is so
clear you can see 200 feet down now when
you think of the North Atlantic you
probably imagine ice-cold waters and
strong winds swirling around
I mean hey this is where that iceberg
was that brought down the Titanic but in
fact that's not the case with the
Sargasso Sea the water in it is
unusually warm for this part of the
ocean a pretty stable 75 degrees give or
take depending on the season
the weather is surprisingly stable too
so the winds are really calm and weak
but what's that up ahead a huge dark
mass in the water as far as the eye can
see
coming right up at us ah no worries it's
just some Sargassum seaweed it can only
be found in this very spot on earth and
it grows and floats in a thick mat on
the surface the amount of Sargassum in
this sea is where the name comes from
and it's estimated to be about 10
million times check it out it rotates
slowly clockwise
thanks to those currents I just told you
about the first mention of the Sargasso
Sea was made by Carthaginian Mariners in
the 5th century BCE the Milko the
navigator described the unusual waters
covered with seaweed in his accounts
then many years later in the early 15th
century Portuguese sailors discovered
this area and spread the word about it
Christopher Columbus himself crossed it
in 1492 he thought he'd reached some
land as he got into it because the
seaweed was so dense but really he was
still hundreds of miles away from the
shore it'd all be just an interesting
natural phenomena except for one
eerie detail the Sargasso Sea is often
called the sea of lost ships mm-hmm and
that comes as no surprise since it
crosses into the Bermuda Triangle yes
the one and only so what's so dangerous
about a sea with calm ice clear waters
no heavy winds or huge waves no icebergs
you know the typical culprits when it
comes to taking down ships well in the
case of the Sargasso Sea it's none of
the above that brought so many vessels
to an untimely demise
it's the Seas almost absent winds that
make it hard for sailing ships to pass
through large freighters and barges can
cross it pretty easily but smaller less
powerful ships haven't always been so
successful in the area plenty have
gotten stuck and lost here
the first official record of a lost ship
was made in 1840 when the London Times
reported the disappearance of the rose
like the interesting part is that it
didn't just disappear or get swallowed
to the bottom of the sea no it was
eventually found floating aimlessly with
not a single person on board the
newspaper based the article on a letter
they received from the capital city of
Nassau in the Bahamas it said a French
vessel going from Hamburg to Havana was
discovered completely abandoned there
was no damage to the ship at all the
sails were set and the expensive cargo
of fruits and silks was also in perfect
condition so it couldn't have been a
storm or pirates the captain's papers
were secured and in the right place the
officers and passengers cabins were also
undisturbed it looked as if everyone on
board had either abandoned ship or
simply vanished into thin air but it'd
be incorrect to say not a living soul
was left there was a cat and some birds
still safe and sound this wasn't the
only record of mysterious disappearances
in the area in 1881 the American
schooner Ellen Austin encountered
another ship traveling through the area
with no passengers whatsoever
Ellen Austin's captain decided it was a
good opportunity to capture the ship and
sent some of his men over I guess what
happened the ship disappeared for two
days and when it was finally found none
of the captain's crew was on board in
1955 a yacht called the connemara 4 also
disappeared in the area and was found
140 miles away from Bermuda with
absolutely nobody on board and between
the 1960s and 80s a few more abandoned
boats were spotted in the area the list
of mysterious disappearances just goes
on and on but for times sake I'll leave
it at that
all these stories of course made people
fear the area they were convinced that
the seaweed entangles travellers forever
forcing them to form small isolated
communities of the Sargasso Sea that's
one theory that became pretty popular in
literature and film like in the 1933
novel the Sargasso Oh Gert what's that
Shrek paddling around the seaweed in a
kayak hmm nope
it describes generations dating back to
Elizabethan pirates living amidst the
sea for those who are seeking a more
scientific explanation than some dark
powers or mysterious seaweed entangling
ships well hate to break your skeptical
bubble but there's no official answer
yet some marine experts believe it has
something to do with the seaweed and the
huge whirlpool that it's floating in
richard sylvester from the university of
western australia compares it to a
centrifuge that creates smaller
whirlpools they spread out of the
Sargasso Sea and right into the Bermuda
Triangle the big whirlpools are so
strong that they can catch a ship and
drag it inside them the smaller ones
travel as many cyclones in the air
disturbing the water below them whether
or not the Sargassum seaweed is the
cause of all the disasters in the area
is still up for debate but one thing is
certain this stuff is a unique
biological phenomenon it doesn't get
into the sea with water currents from
elsewhere but is actually native
specifically to the Sargasso Sea it's
born and grows right in the water and
it's home to hundreds of unique fish in
a few rare species of sea turtle marine
biologists and oceanographers from
different countries named the Sargasso
Sea the golden rainforest of the ocean
and say it plays a huge role in the life
of the North Atlantic ecosystem for
example it's really hard for little fish
to find a place to hide from predators
and grow in the open sea with no coral
reefs so they find refuge in the
Sargassum seaweed right in the middle of
the ocean
those little fish then serve as a food
source for bigger species oh well and
the circle of life goes on from there
the fish also take advantage of the
plant materials and use them for food as
well American and European eels come to
the area and use it as a safe place to
breed young sea turtles hide from
predators in the mat of weeds until they
grow up and become ready to face life
out in the open ocean even migrating
humpback whales use the area as a
temporary home unfortunately not only
turtles and fish travel with occurrence
right into the Sargasso Sea the moving
waters also carry garbage with them
including plastics that aren't
biodegradable once this garbage gets
entangled in the seaweed it stays right
there surrounded by a wall of currents
at the moment this unique sea is part of
the North Atlantic Garbage Patch it was
first found in 1972 and is only getting
bigger with time at present it's
hundreds of miles in size the
authorities in Bermuda are taking action
to protect and conserve this beautiful
and unique borderless sea and its
wildlife
well all I can say is whatever's making
ships disappear in this area it doesn't
seem interested in taking our trash
guess we'll have to just do something
about that ourselves but what about you
would you dare to sail across the
Sargasso Sea let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
kayaking with shrek just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life